-: Welcome back.
So in this lecture we are going to look into
Docker installation.
Okay, so from Docker installation's perspective.
So let's click on the Docker install
And we can see here so we can install the Docker engine
and then it is supported in different platforms, Okay?
So centOS, Debian, Fedora, and then Ubuntu
and with x86, AMD64, ARM, ARM64, IBM Power,
and then IBM Z series.
So this is more or less like a
docking engine directly installed on those
respective operating systems.
So in addition we have something called Docker Desktop.
So we have the server version
and also we have the desktop version.
So from server versions perspective
all these operating systems are supported
and these models are supported.
Okay, so x86, 64 or AMD 64, ARM, all those things.
So now from Desktop's perspective
so we can install Docker desktop for Mac on MacOS
and also Docker desktop for Windows on Microsoft Windows 10.
So let's see, start with the windows, right?
So when we click on that Windows, so you can see here
get started with Docker for Windows.
So we can directly install the Docker desktop
on our Windows Machine
and then test these things using these steps.
So let's click on install Docker desktop for Windows.
So we have the system requirements here.
Our system should have Windows 10 64 bit
pro, enterprise or education versions
and we should have the HyperV
and then container, HyperV and containers Windows feature
must be enabled on our operating system,
means like at the OS level, Okay?
So now our machine should minimum have
4GB of system RAM to operate or run this Docker desktop.
Right, so once those are ready
so we can download the Docker desktop installer dot exe
and then run it, Okay?
So we can start the Docker desktop
and then we can start using it, okay?
So you can see here
and then you can run the Microsoft Power shell.
and then from there you can run the Docker run, Hello world.
Right, and then you can test it.
So in addition to that from Docker desktop only
you can even log into your Docker hub id, okay?
So that's about the Windows installation.
So this Docker desktop is going to be pretty easy
from install perspective
if you have the exact system requirements.
So primarily like if your system is of Windows 64 bit
and then Windows 10 you are running
and at least you have 4GB system RAM, then it is good, okay?
But from my observation
what I'm saying is usually 4GB system RAM
if you install this Docker desktop
then your system will be at the disaster.
This is the live experience whatever I am having, okay?
So ensure that your system has 8GB RAM,
so that you can even leverage that for using other tasks
other than Docker desktop things, okay?
So if it is only 4GB system
then it only supports for Docker desktop.
and then most of the things,
whatever you run either your Spring boot IDE
or Eclipse IDE or whatever you are running there
it is going to be a hell lot of a system,
where it, it'll be very, very slow, okay?
So 8GB ramp is always recommended
even though it says 4GB here
but in real world it's 8GB is recommended.
Okay, So that's about the Docker desktop on Windows.
Okay, So moving on.
So the next thing is Docker desktop on Mac, right?
So if you see here
this is get started with Docker desktop for Mac, right?
So install Docker desktop for Mac.
So let's go there.
And then, so if you see here
so from system requirements perspective,
if you are on the latest OS, it is already supported.
So MacOS must be version 10.13 or even newer.
So this is the thing.
And 4GB of ram, that's what they say as usual.
And virtual box prior to version must not be installed.
So all these things you can ignore, okay?
So with this virtual box and all those things, okay?
So directly download the Docker desktop
and then move to the application folder.
And then once you are move to the application folder,
it'll, it'll be available as a docker.app, okay?
So you can run that.
and then once you run this docker.app
so it'll start displaying here, you can see
you can see it here, right?
So Docker desktop is running on my Docker desktop.
So it'll be available for us to run it,
means like it'll be available for us
to open it from here on, Okay?
So it's engine version, composed version,
Kubernetes version, all these details are provided here.
So once our Docker desktop is up and running
on our Mac machines
so we can go here and then go to the preferences section
and then ensure that this respective setting, okay,
securely store Docker logins in MacOS key chain, okay?
So this setting should be unchecked, okay?
So I already have a running version here,
so I'm not looking into it,
but ideally this setting should be unchecked.
So let's see more about it, okay?
So Docker desktop on Mac has an issue
with the Mac OS key chain, okay?
OS X key chain, okay?
So to fix it, we need to perform these two steps.
So one is go to Doc, Docker desktop changes
open Docker desktop preferences,
which is nothing but whatever we have seen here, right?
In preferences and uncheck the option named
securely store Docker logins in MacOS key chain.
So that is first thing, okay?
And once that is done,
go to the conflict.json file in .docker folder.
So this will be there in your root folder, okay?
So if you go to your users, and then (indistinct)
my, my home user is, my user's home is user (indistinct).
And inside that I'll have a folder called .docker.
And then inside that you'll have something called
config.json, okay?
So currently I removed it earlier
so I am not finding it here
but you'll find some line called cred store OSX key chain
Okay, so this line, okay, so you just need to remove this
and then restart that Docker, okay?
So restart that Docker daemon.
So you can see here, you can see restart, okay?
somewhere it should be there here, yeah.
Restart the Docker daemon.
So when you do that, so this issue will be resolved
if you face any issues related to this OSX key chain
ensure that you are going to troubleshoot
when it is on Mac using following things, okay?
So other than that,
on Mac you are not going to face any other issues.
Only this issue you will face
and then you can fix it using these things, okay?
So in our next lecture we'll focus on our flow one
which is pull from Docker hub and then run the Docker image.
So I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.